[DOCS-3411] Add new security notification and variables docs (#14881)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security_platform/notifications/_index.md

---
title: Notifications
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/security_platform/notifications/rules/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Set up and configure notification rules"
- link: "/security_platform/notifications/variables/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about notification variables to customize notifications"
- link: "/security_platform/detection_rules/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Explore security detection rules"
---

## Overview

> A security signal is generated when a threat is detected in the Datadog Security Platform. You can send notifications to keep your team informed when these signals are generated. Notifications can be set up for specific [Detection Rules](#detection-rules-notifications) and also more broadly with [Notification Rules](#notification-rules). See [Notification Variables][1] on how to customize the notifications based on the signal's severity and specific context on the threat. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A security signal is generated when a threat is detected in the Datadog Security Platform. You can send notifications to keep your team informed when these signals are generated. 

Notifications can be set up for specific [detection rules](#detection-rules-notifications) and also more broadly with [notification rules](#notification-rules). See [Notification Variables][1] to learn how to customize the notifications based on the signal's severity and specific context on the threat. 
```

> ### Notification channels

Reviewer: Is there a reason why this section (including Email and Integrations) is a H3 and not an H2?

Author: Thanks! I updated Notification Channels to be H2, and the Email and Integrations subsections to be H3.

Send notifications through email, Slack, Jira, PagerDuty, or a webhook. 

#### Email

> * Notify an active Datadog user by email with `@<DD_USER_EMAIL_ADDRESS>`. **Note**: An email address associated with a pending Datadog user invitation or a disabled user is considered inactive and does not receive notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Notify an active Datadog user by email with `@<DD_USER_EMAIL_ADDRESS>`. An email address associated with a pending Datadog user invitation or a disabled user is considered inactive and does not receive notifications.
```

* Notify any non-Datadog user by email with `@<EMAIL>`.

#### Integrations

> Notify your team through connected integrations by using the format `@<INTEGRATION_NAME>-<VALUES>`. Below is a list of prefixes and example links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notify your team through connected integrations by using the format `@<INTEGRATION_NAME>-<VALUES>`. 

This table lists prefixes and example links:
```

| Integration    | Prefix       | Examples       |
|----------------|--------------|----------------|
| [Jira][2]      | `@jira`      | [Examples][3]  |
| [PagerDuty][4] | `@pagerduty` | [Examples][5]  |
| [Slack][6]     | `@slack`     | [Examples][7]  |
| [Webhooks][8]  | `@webhook`   | [Examples][9] |

> **Note**: Handles that include parentheses (`(`, `)`) are not supported. When a handle with parentheses is used, the handle is not parsed and no alert is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handles that include parentheses (`(`, `)`) are not supported. When a handle with parentheses is used, the handle is not parsed and no alert is created.
```

## Detection Rule notifications

> When you [create or modify a new Detection Rule][10], you can use the Set Rule Case or Say What’s Happening section to define the notifications that are sent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you [create or modify a new detection rule][10], you can use the **Set Rule Case** or **Say What’s Happening** section to define the notifications that are sent. 
```

### Set rule case

> In the Set Rule Case section, add rule cases to determine when a Detection Rule triggers a security signal and the severity of the signal. Use the Notify dropdown to send signal notifications generated from that case to the selected recipient(s). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Set Rule Case** section, add rule cases to determine when a detection rule triggers a security signal and the severity of the signal. Use the **Notify** dropdown to send signal notifications generated from that case to the selected recipient(s). 
```

### Say what's happening

> Use the Say What's Happening section to determine the content that is sent when a signal is generated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Say What's Happening** section to determine the content that is sent when a signal is generated. 
```

#### Rule name

> Add a rule name for your detection rule. The rule name appears in the Detection Rules list view, as well as the title of the signal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a rule name for your detection rule. The rule name appears in the **Detection Rules** list view, as well as the title of the signal. 
```

#### Message

> Use standard Markdown and [Notification Variables][1] to provide specific details about the signal by referencing its tags and event attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use standard Markdown and [notification variables][1] to provide specific details about the signal by referencing its tags and event attributes.
```

#### Tags

> Use the Tag Resulting Signals dropdown to tag your signals with different tags. For example, `attack:sql-injection-attempt`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the **Tag Resulting Signals** dropdown to tag your signals with different tags. For example, `attack:sql-injection-attempt`. 
```

## Notification rules

> Notification Rules allow you to set general alerting preferences so that you don’t have to set up notification preferences for individual Detection Rules. For example, you can set up a Notification Rule to send you a notification if any `CRITICAL` or `HIGH` severity signal is triggered. See [Notification Rules][11] for more information on setup and configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notification rules allow you to set general alerting preferences so that you don’t have to set up notification preferences for individual detection rules. For example, you can set up a notification rule to send a notification if any `CRITICAL` or `HIGH` severity signal is triggered. See [Notification Rules][11] for more information on setup and configuration.
```
